World’s very first LEED Certified Platinum Denim Manufacturing Facility. The plant, including its own weaving and spinning facility, is located in Mymensingh, Bangladesh encompassing a massive area of 45 acres of land. A 100% export-oriented manufacturing company which started commercial operation in 2008 and became a Public Limited Company in 2012. The first denim facility in Bangladesh to use Rope Dyed Technology, Envoy has a production capacity of 4.5 million yards each month. Being a backward integrated facility, Envoy has its own spinning facility capable to produce 70 tonnes of yarns per day.

Envoy Textiles operates on sustainable production processes, such as fibers from sustainable sourcing like Organic, PCW, BCI, etc., Ozone finishing process which reduces environmental impact, Aero Finish to enhance fabric stretching with durability, state-of-the-art Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) saving 100 million liters of natural water every year, E-Lab which is equipped with environment friendly Laser and Ozone Wash machines, and many more.

Envoy Textiles, also focused on employee welfare and CSR activities, has set up a “Pediatric Intensive Care Unit” for burn patients at the Dhaka Medical Hospital owned by Bangladesh Government. This one of the kind facility is the first to be established in the country.

Bangladesh Government has recognized and honored Envoy Textiles on many occasions, such as 11-time winner of National Export Trophy, President’s Award for Industrial Development in Bangladesh, Highest Tax Payer Award, etc.


Sustainability

Envoy Textiles Limited was awarded LEED Platinum Certified company by U.S. Green Building Council, the highest worldwide recognition for Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design.
Envoy Textiles Limited is the FIRST to score ‘LEED Platinum’ among all Denim Mills in the WORLD.
US Green Building Council gives LEED certification as Green, Silver, Gold and Platinum. And, among all these, Platinum is the highest recognition.
The LEED Certification is a mark of quality and achievement in green building. LEED certification means healthier, more productive places, reduced stress on the environment by encouraging energy and resource efficient buildings.
Envoy Textiles has set a benchmark for different usage of environment and energy.
And major areas among them are, sustainable site, water efficiency, energy & atmosphere, material & resources, indoor environmental quality, regional priority credits, etc.


CSR


1. Setup & Maintenance of Pediatric HDU at Burn Unit of Dhaka Medical College Hospital:
Envoy Textiles Limited has built a state-of the art-Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (ICU) cum High Dependency Unit (HDU) at Dhaka Medical College Hospital, which is a govt. hospital and generally known as ‘Burn Unit of Dhaka Medical’. This facility is the first of its kind in Bangladesh and prior to this there was no ICU/HDU for pediatric burn patients both in Government and Private Hospitals. After building this unit, the Company has also taken the responsibility of maintaining it at their own cost. Which included full cleaning of the premises, laundry of the bed sheet/pillows, etc. and also the maintenance of electrical, mechanical and civil construction.

2. Appointment of People with Disability:
The Company is an equal opportunity employer, but in spite of that, it has prioritized the appointment of disable people. Currently 13 disable people are working in different divisions of Factory. Among these, most of the appointments were given proactively by the Company.

3. Paying Salaries of Deceased Victims of other:
Companies through BGMEA The Company has taken the responsibility of the families of 5 deceased victims who died in major fire incidents at a Garment Factory (Tajreen Fashions). Not being directly linked with the company, the Company is continuously paying the last salary of 5 victims. The salary is paid to the nominees of the victims through Bangladesh Garments Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA).

4. Tree Plantation Campaign in Schools
The Company conducts Tree Plantation programs, under which, school students get plants from the company. On 2019, ten thousand plants were distributed to the students of ten schools adjacent to the factory locality. And, in the year 2021, five thousand plants were also distributed among ten schools in the same manner.

5. Bird Nest Installation
The Company installed 400 nest of bird in factory premises to ensure safe bird habitat.

6. Internship for National & International Students
The Company provides Internship opportunity to the students of National and International Universities.

7. Hosting of Study Tours for National & International Students
The Company encourages the visits of students at the factory, and hence, periodic visit of students from different disciplines and organizations are arranged and hosted by Envoy Textiles on regular basis.

8. Awareness Program for Dengu Prevention
The Company has taken a program for Awareness on Dengue Fever, more than 5,000 leaflets were distributed to different levels of people about Dengue Prevention and do’s and don’ts.

9. Awareness Program for Fire Prevention
The Company has taken a program for Awareness on Fire Safety, more than 5,000 leaflets were distributed to different levels of people on Fire Safety Awareness.

10. Awareness Program for Corona Virus
The company has taken a program for awareness on Corona Virus, more than 4000 leaflets were distributed to different levels of people on Corona Virus awareness.

11. Art Competition for Factory Neighborhood Children
Every Year, Envoy Textiles conducts an Art Competition for the children around factory premises. The walls for painting and art props are provided by Envoy Textiles and prizes are also given. Envoy Textiles. Also preserves the artwork in their wall at least for a year.

12. Financial Aid for Special Patient at Dhaka Medical (Tree Man Disease)
The Company provides financial aids to special patients. The last case was the person with ‘Tree Man Disease’. Mr. Bajandar was admitted to Dhaka Medical College Hospital with a rare disease called ‘Tree Man Disease’. This is so far an untreatable disease and different international organizations are still trying to find a cure. The Company has provided a special monthly allowance to Mr Bajandar for one year to maintain his regular expenses.

13. Financial Aid for Accident in Other Concern
The Company provides financial aids in different instances. A Contribution was provided through BGMEA for Rana Plaza accident.

14. Financial Aid for Natural Disaster
The Company donated for Victim of Hill Landslides in Rangamati, Chittagong, Khagrachari through Prothom Alo Trust.

15. Effluent Treatment Plant
The Company has a fully operational Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) at factory and it discharges only treated water to the nature. On the other hand, being environment friendly, it also re-uses most of the ETP water for other internal usage.

16. Ecological Contribution
a. There is a small Rabbit farm at Envoy Textiles factory premises where rabbit have been born and raised to contribute to the nature. A bunch of rabbits were discharged at Bangabandhu Safari Park as a contribution to the nature.
b. Envoy Textiles harvests Rainwater by collecting the rain drops and stored for the future use, rather than allowing it to run off. rainwater harvesting provides an independent water supply for firefighting and other usages.
c. Envoy Textiles farming fish in factory lake.
d. Envoy Textiles has taken a project for establishing a eco-park at factory.
e. Envoy Textiles ensure a friendly and safer place for temporary living for migratory birds at factory premises each year.
f. Envoy Textiles is conducting a joint venture aquaponic project (Plants without Soil) in its factory premises

Latest Achievement

Mr. Tanvir Ahmed, Managing Director of Sheltech Group, Envoy Legacy, Envoy Textiles Limited, and Green Textile Limited, has successfully completed the Capstone Course 2025/2 at the National Defence College (NDC), as part of a distinguished cohort of 45 fellows. His participation reflects the growing role of private sector leadership in advancing national development and strategic vision. The certificate ceremony was presided over by Chief of Army Staff General Waker-Uz-Zaman, OSP, SGP, psc, and NDC Commandant Lieutenant General Mohammad Shaheenul Haque, OSP, BSP, ndc, hdmc, psc- highlighting the importance of collaborative leadership in addressing national priorities.



